This is the release of Snapdragon LLVM ARM C/C++ Toolchain version 3.7.2. This is
a cross toolchain built to run on x86 64-bit Ubuntu Linux (versions 10.04 and
later) and Windows platform (64-bit, Windows 7). This Snapdragon LLVM
ARM Compiler will generate code only for ARM targets and will not generate code
for any of the other targets supported by llvm.org LLVM.

The version 3.7.2 of Snapdragon LLVM ARM Compiler is based off the llvm.org 3.7
tip as of Feb 2015. The Snapdragon LLVM ARM Toolchain 3.7.2 release includes
proprietary features and optimizations that are not available in the llvm.org
release.

The Snapdragon LLVM ARM Compiler uses the integrated assembler for assembling
and relies on GNU tools for linking.

NOTE: GLIBCXX_3.4.18 or higher is required to run Snapdragon LLVM 3.7 on Ubuntu
x86 64-bit hosts; this library is typically available as part of Ubuntu
distribution or GCC-4.8 x86 distributions. 

The complete user guide for this release of the Snapdragon LLVM ARM Compiler
is avaialble as part of your download package under 
llvm-Snapdragon_LLVM_for_Android_3.7/prebuilt/<platform>/Snapdragon
_LLVM_ARM_37_User_Guide.pdf.

Please post all questions about this release on
http://developer.qualcomm.com/llvm-forum.

The following are some of the key features in the 3.7.2 version compared to the
3.6 version:

1. Full support for building Android code base (AOSP) without any changes to
the build system.

2. A fully featured QC Linker that supports
  - Link Time Optimization (LTO) for both 32-bit and 64-bit ARM targets
  - LTO capability for Linux and Windows hosts. Note that alternative
    LTO linkers such as Gold linker cannot be used on Windows with
    LLVM.
  - Support for Thread-Local Storage (TLS)
  - Support for building full Android system (AOSP)
  - Support for linker scripts to control and direct image creation.

  By default, the NDK build system will use GNU linker for linking. However,
  for LTO, the QC Linker will be invoked since only QC Linker has been verified
  to fully support LTO for ARMv7 and AArch64 targets. To use QC Linker for
  linking for non-LTO compilation, please specify "-fuse-ld=qcld" on the
  command line.

3. The Snapdragon LLVM ARM 3.7.2 toolchain release provides enhanced
support for using profiling with Android APKs by 
  - Improving user experience by eliminating the need to convert
    android apks to standalone executables for profile generation
    purposes.
  - Supporting profile generation in multi-library applications.
  - Enabling android apks built for profile generation to run in their natural
    setting, with no other modifications needed, for generating profiles that
    can be used for PGO

4. Improvements to Profile Guided Optimizations (PGO) through improved inline
heuristics, indirect call optimizations and new hot/cold code separation.

5. Integration with MARE (Multicore Asynchronous Runtime Environment) to enable
users to use an alternative Auto par runtime system. Please refer to section
4.5.1 of the Snapdragon LLVM ARM Compiler user guide.

6. Support for code generation for the new Kryo cpu by specifying -mcpu=kryo option.

7. Auto vectorization is now enabled at -O2 optimization level, in addition to
-O3 and higher levels, to enable application developers to realize the benefits
of loop vectorization at default build levels.

8. Support for building mips and x86 targets using the Snapdragon LLVM ARM 3.6
build system. Please refer to the README for more details


Options:

To find out the most common options, please pass -help flag to the clang
driver. This will report the Snapdragon LLVM ARM specific options and
general ARM options first, before listing target independent options
available in Snapdragon LLVM ARM Compiler.

Compiler options for best performance:

For 64-bit applications, we recommend using "-Ofast -mcpu=cortex-a57" options
for best performance on Cortex-a57 cores, and "-Ofast -mcpu=cortex-a53" for
best performance on Cortex-a53 cores.

For 32-bit, we recommend using the "-Ofast -mcpu=krait" options for best
performance of your application on Krait cores. For non-Krait 32-bit cores, we
recommend using the "-Ofast" option. If you would like to avoid the generation
of Krait specific instructions (hardware divide, fused-mac) to enable running
on a variety of ARMv7 cores, but still optimize for best performance on Krait
cores, we recommend the "-Ofast -mtune=krait -march=armv7-a" option list.

The -Ofast option enables several high performance optimizations such as
Auto-vectorizer. Please refer to section 3.4.19 of the Snapdragon LLVM ARM
Compiler guide for more details.

Compiler options for smallest code-size:

We recommending using the "-Osize -mthumb" options to generate the most compact
code with the Snapdragon LLVM 3.7.2 compiler. Please refer to section 3.4.19 for
more details on the -Osize optimization level

Compiling for AArch64:

To compile for AArch64 (ARMv8 64-bit mode), please pass 

-target aarch64-linux-androieabi

option to clang.

Compiling for AArch32:

To compile for AArch32 please pass

-target armv8-linux-android

option to clang. Note that even though AArch32 ISA is fully backward compatible
with ARMv7 ISA, there are new instructions in AArch32 ISA compared to ARMv7
ISA. This means that AArch32 executables cannot be executed on ARMv7 cores such
as Krait.

Please refer to section 3.4.19 of the Snapdragon LLVM ARM Compiler user guide to
learn about various optimization flags.

LLVM's Support for GCC command line options:

Most of the commonly used GCC options are supported by LLVM as well. A detailed
list of options supported is listed in chapter 3 of the Snapdragon LLVM ARM
Compiler user guide.  

