This is the Snapdragon LLVM ARM C/C++ compiler toolchain 4.0 release. This is 
a cross toolchain built to run on x86 64-bit Ubuntu Linux (versions 12.04 and
later). The Snapdragon LLVM ARM Compiler will only generate code for ARM 
targets and will not generate code for any of the other targets supported by
the AOSP LLVM compiler.

Version 4.0 of the Snapdragon LLVM ARM Compiler includes all changes in the 
llvm.org 4.0 release, and additionally includes patches that are post-4.0 
llvm.org release. This version of the Snapdragon LLVM ARM toolchain includes 
proprietary features and optimizations that are not available in the llvm.org
release or the AOSP LLVM compiler.

The Snapdragon LLVM ARM Compiler uses the integrated assembler for assembling
and includes a full featured proprietary linker (QC Linker) for linking. For 
Android, the QC Linker is primarily used for Link Time Optimization (LTO).

The link below contains all the new features in the llvm.org 4.0 release.
http://releases.llvm.org/4.0.0/docs/ReleaseNotes.html

The Snapdragon LLVM ARM 4.0 toolchain contains all the above features, and 
additionally contains the following key features compared to the SDLLVM 3.9 
release:

1. Compiler Features
  - Improvements to armv7/aarch32 vector code generation
  - Code size optimizations
2. Security/Code Hygiene
  - Support for whitelisting directories for static analyzer
  - Allow blacklisting of bugs using an external file in static analyzer
  - New options for specifying priority of static analyzer checkers 
  - Availability of post processing script for Windows host platform
  - New options for running the Static Analyzer on performance mode
  - New checkers added to static analyzer

This version of the Snapdragon LLVM ARM toolchain may generate additional 
front-end warnings compared to the SDLLVM 3.9 version.  However, we expect
it to be better performing than the 3.9 release.  We recommend using this 
version for performance critical components (where possible).

Please contact your Qualcomm Android support POC for more details or 
documentation.